---
title: "A multi-dimensional view of a unified model for TDEs"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2D_Reprocessing
excerpt: 'In this paper, we explore the radiative transfer postprocessing of a 2D accretion flow geometry, moving beyond the 1D spherical case. Our findings indicate that photons in 2D are less likely to become trapped, allowing them to escape more readily along low-opacity viewing angles. This results in increased optical luminosity for small viewing angles, aligning more closely with observational data. Additionally, we observe that the evolution of optical-to-X-ray luminosity still varies with the viewing angle.'
date: 2024-09-01
venue: 'MNRAS'
paperurl: 'https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024arXiv240816371P/abstract'
---
In this paper, we explore the radiative transfer postprocessing of a 2D accretion flow geometry, moving beyond the 1D spherical case. Our findings indicate that photons in 2D are less likely to become trapped, allowing them to escape more readily along low-opacity viewing angles. This results in increased optical luminosity for small viewing angles, aligning more closely with observational data. Additionally, we observe that the evolution of optical-to-X-ray luminosity still varies with the viewing angle.

<a href="https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024arXiv240816371P/abstract" target="_blank">Access the paper here</a>

Abstract: Tidal disruption events (TDEs) can generate non-spherical, relativistic, and optically thick outflows. Simulations show that the radiation we observe is reprocessed by these outflows. According to a unified model suggested by these simulations, the spectral energy distributions (SEDs) of TDEs depend strongly on viewing angle: low [high] optical-to-X-ray ratios (OXRs) correspond to face-on [edge-on] orientations. Post-processing with radiative transfer codes has simulated the emergent spectra but has so far been carried out only in a quasi-1D framework, with three atomic species (H, He, and O). Here, we present 2.5D Monte Carlo radiative transfer simulations that model the emission from a non-spherical outflow, including a more comprehensive set of cosmically abundant species. While the basic trend of OXR increasing with inclination is preserved, the inherently multi-dimensional nature of photon transport through the non-spherical outflow significantly affects the emergent SEDs. Relaxing the quasi-1D approximation allows photons to preferentially escape in (polar) directions of lower optical depth, resulting in a greater variation of bolometric luminosity as a function of inclination. According to our simulations, inclination alone may not fully explain the large dynamic range of observed TDE OXRs. We also find that including metals, other than Oxygen, changes the emergent spectra significantly, resulting in stronger absorption and emission lines in the extreme ultraviolet, as well as a greater variation in the OXR as a function of inclination. Whilst our results support previously proposed unified models for TDEs, they also highlight the critical importance of multi-dimensional ionization and radiative transfer.
