---
title: "Understanding Extreme Accretion and Outflows Around Black Holes through Radiative Transfer Studies"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/PhD
excerpt: 'This is my PhD dissertation, it contains an introduction, method, result and conclusion section. The result sections are slightly modified versions of my three first-author published papers'
date: 2023-08-01
venue: 'Hong Kong University Library'
paperurl: 'Lars_PhD_thesis_upload.pdf'
---

<a href="https://gfh112.github.io/Lars/Lars_PhD_thesis_upload.pdf" target="_blank">Access the paper here</a>

Abstract: This dissertation investigates the observational characteristics of super-Eddington
accretion and outflow through advanced radiative transfer simulations.
In the first part of the dissertation, I developed and utilised a general relativistic
ray-tracing package to examine the X-ray reverberation signatures from super-Eddington
accretion flows. My study reveals that the spectral and temporal signatures of Fe lines
generated by super-Eddington flows have distinct morphologies compared to those
produced by thin accretion disks: the line energy is more blueshifted, the line profiles
are more symmetric, and the time lag of the line is much shorter. I apply my calculations
to successfully model the Fe line observed from the jetted tidal disruption event
Swift J1644+57, and I give direct quantitative evidence that a super-Eddington disk has
likely formed in this event.

In the second part of the dissertation, I employ a state-of-the-art Monte Carlo Radiative
Transfer code, Sedona, to calculate the continuum emission produced from simulated
super-Eddington accretion flows, focusing on their relevance to tidal disruption
events. I find that the spectral energy distribution depends not only on the inclination
of the observer with respect to the disk but also on the accretion rate. Therefore, my results
can be used to explain the diversity and evolution of TDEs, in which the accretion
rate is expected to change rapidly over a timescale of years. In particular, I apply this
model to explain tidal disruption events that start as optically bright but evolve to be
X-ray bright later, such as ASASSN 15-oi.

This dissertation emphasises the importance of using radiative transfer calculations
to study and understand super-Eddington accretion and outflow around black
holes. The findings provide valuable insights into the physical processes involved in
these events and contribute to developing more accurate models for future observations.
